>> Kevin Powell: All right, so the first
progressive enhancement we're gonna be
taking a look at is view transitions.
And I do want to just preface this
a little bit that we're only gonna be
touching on the basics
of view transitions.
They're really cool.
You can do awesome stuff with them
without getting deep into them.
But it's also a huge and really deep topic
that if you like what we cover in here
I Strongly suggest you learn,
dive in and learn a bit more about them.
And there's two important things.
There's two different
types of view transitions.
There's same document view transitions and
cross document view transitions.
We're gonna be looking at both of them.
It's a fancy name,
same document to cross document.
Just is it within the page and
you're updating things on the page?
Or is it between page when you're
navigating from one page to another, so
cross document is when you
use your navigation to go
to a completely different page.
So it's a really deep topic.
You can dive way more in, but we're
gonna start with adding a cross document
view transition because this is
the easiest thing in the world,
where in your CSS,
come all the way to the top.
We'll do this in our base actually,
I'm gonna do it, it's an at rule.
I'll just throw it at the very top.
I don't know where I would
actually put this and
at view Transition Navigation Auto, and
it's basically opt-in
by doing it like this.
And so now, if I'm on my page and
I go to a different page,
you can actually see it cross-fades
from one page to the other.
And that's all I had to do was adding that
view transition at rule at the top of my
page and the navigation of auto.
There's nothing else, it just works.
And the default is the cross
fade that we were seeing.
You can control the two pages separately,
so the one exiting, the one entering.
There's a lot you can do with this,
just to show you one of
the things you can do with it.
It's called a view-transition-group.
And it looks like this, it's kind of weird
looking, and I'm going to put root here,
because I'm selecting the root
of my document right now.
It is the HTML that we're looking
at that's transitioning between
the two pages.
And let's just do an animation
duration of three seconds.
And so now, if I I switch between pages,
it takes three seconds to cross fade from
one to the other, nothing too fancy.
I wouldn't suggest slowing it down by that
much, but it just shows you you're just
hooking into regular animations
the same way you do before.
So you could do an animation that slides
one page in and slides the other one out.
I'm doing a view transition group.
So it's taking both the old page and
the new page, it's treating them as one.
If you wanted different animations for
both of them,
you have your view,
transition, old and new.
So the new of the root is the new
page that you're navigating to.
And the old one, if you did the old here,
would be the page that you're leaving.
So you could do a transition in one
direction, transition for the other, and
the pages could actually slide, or
you could do other things that way.
We're not gonna dive too deep into them,
as I said,
you can use animations to control
everything that's going on.
I'm just going to leave
the default one there at the top,
and if it's something you
want to use to enhance.
It's the page, or play around with it
a little bit more, you definitely can.
The other thing really quickly,
the root is a default one.
You can also add view transition
names as a property to elements, and
then you can transition
individual things as well.
It gets really powerful, where you could
have, like, the name of a card that you're
clicking on becomes the title somewhere
else, and it animates to that.
Position and it just works out of the box.
It's really, really cool and
how easy it is just throwing this at
the top of the page and it working.
You will notice that it gets a little
squiggly here because VSCode
doesn't recognize it.
So we're getting a syntax error but
as we can see it does work.
And this is a really nice progressive
enhancement cause if it doesn't work and
the browser doesn't understand what that.
That is, it doesn't break anything,
they just get a regular page load, and
it just jumps.
But if it does work, then it will
transition from one to the other,
and it's a little busted there.
Let's refresh the page and
hopefully get the transition coming in.
We saw it before, we knew it works.
[LAUGH] It doesn't wanna animate now,
I don't know what I did, there we go,
it's back.
So we can transition back and forth.